Now, we will discuss the front end and back end specific to RTAB-Map.
The front end of RTAB-Map focuses on sensor data used to
obtain the constraints that are used for feature optimization approaches.
Although landmark constraints are used for other graphs
SLAM methods like the 2D graph SLAM method you saw earlier,
RTAB-Map does not use them.
Only odometry constraints and loop closure constraints are considered here.
The odometry constraints can come from wheel encoders,
IMU, lighter or visual odometry.
Visual odometry is accomplished using
2D features such as Speeded Up Robust Features or SURF.
Remember that RTAB-Map is appearance based with no metric distance information.
RTAB-Map can use a single monocular camera to detect loop closure.
For metric graph SLAM,
RTAB-Map requires an RGB-D camera or
a stereo camera to compute the geometric constraint between the images of a loop closure.
A laser range finder can also be used to improve or refine
this geometric constraint by providing a more precise localization.
The front end also involves graph management,
which includes node creation and loop closure detection using bag-of-words.
The back end of RTAB-Map includes graph optimization,
an assembly of an occupancy grid from the data of the graph.
We will discuss these components in more detail starting with loop closure.
As you've heard, loop closure detection is the process of finding
a match between the current and previously visited locations in SLAM.
There are two types of loop closure detection: local and global.
Many probabilistic SLAM methods use local loop closure detection
where matches are found between a new observation and a limited map region.
The size and location of this limited map region is determined by
the uncertainty associated with the robot's position.
This type of approach fails if the estimated position is incorrect.
As you've already seen,
it is likely that the events in the real world that the robot is operating
in will cause errors in the estimated position.
In a global loop closure approach,
a new location is compared with previously viewed locations.
If no match is found,
the new location is added to memory.
As the map grows and more locations are added,
the amount of time to check whether the location has
been previously seen increases linearly.
If the time it takes to search and compare new images to the
one stored in memory becomes larger than the acquisition time,
the map becomes ineffective.
RTAB-Map uses a global loop closure approach combined with
other techniques to ensure that the loop closure process happens in real time.
As you can see here, the ultimate map output
is significantly improved with loop closure detection